Further fixes for the ebola model (#132)
epiverse-trace/epidemics: vignettes/ebola_model.Rmd

  ) +
  labs(
    x = "Days",
    y = "Outbreak size"
  )
```

We see that applying an intervention that reduces transmission can be effective in reducing the number of individuals infected over the outbreak.

## Modelling the roll-out of vaccination

We can also model the rollout of vaccination against EVD, but because this model is structured differently from other models in _epidemics_, vaccination must be modelled differently too.

> `epidemic_ebola_r()` does not accept a vaccination regime as a `<vaccination>` object, but we can still model the effect of vaccination as a gradual decrease in the transmission rate $\beta$ over time.

Reviewer: [Ebola vaccination targets susceptible or at-risk individuals](https://www.who.int/news-room/questions-and-answers/item/ebola-vaccines). So, conceptually, it's better to model it as an increased removal from the susceptible class into the removed class.

# we assume that this vaccination begins on the 15th day
time_dep_vax <- function(
    time, x, max_time = 100, time_start = 15,
    reduction = 0.05) {
  if (time < time_start) {
    x
  } else {
    x * ((1.0 - reduction)^(time / max_time))
  }
}
```

```{r}
# set a seed for comparison with the baseline model
set.seed(0)
# note that the intervention is passed within a list,
# where it is named for the rate it is targeting
data_apply_vax <- epidemic_ebola_r(
  population = guinea_population,
  infection = ebola,
  time_dependence = list(
    beta = time_dep_vax
  ),
  time_end = 100
)

# assign scenario name
data_apply_vax$scenario <- "apply_vaccination"

# bind the data together
data_scenarios <- rbindlist(list(data_baseline, data_apply_vax))
```

```{r class.source = 'fold-hide', fig.cap="Effect of implementing a vaccination regime that gradually reduces ebola transmission over time, using the time dependence functionality."}
ggplot(data_scenarios[compartment == "removed", ]) +
  geom_vline(
    xintercept = 15,
    linetype = "dotted"
  ) +
  geom_line(
    aes(time, value, colour = scenario)
  ) +
  scale_colour_brewer(
    palette = "Set1",
    name = "Scenario",

>     labels = c("Baseline", "Implementing vaccination")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    labels = c("Baseline", "Vaccination campaign")
```

  ) +
  theme_bw() +
  theme(
    legend.position = "top"
  ) +
  labs(
    x = "Days",
    y = "Outbreak size"
  )
```

Similar functionality can be used to affect other model parameters more flexibly than allowed by the `<rate_intervention>` class.

## Modelling a multi-pronged ebola response

Since EVD is a severe disease with a high case fatality risk, responses to an outbreak may require the simultaneous implementation of a number of measures to reduce transmission to end the outbreak quickly.

> We can use the EVD model and existing functionality in _epidemics_ to model the implementation of a multi-pronged response to ebola that aims to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the EVD model and existing functionality in _epidemics_ to model the implementation of a multi-pronged response to ebola that aims to improve:
```

> - Improve detection of cases and hospitalise them,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve detection and treatment of cases,
```

> - Improve the safety of hospitals and reduce the risk of individuals being treated there passing on ebola to susceptibles in the community, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- safety of hospitals and reduction in the risk of community transmission, and
```

> - Improve the safety of funeral practices to reduce the risk of transmission from individuals who died while infectious with ebola.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- safety of funeral practices to reduce the risk of transmission from dead bodies.
```

Here, we show the effects of these interventions separately, before showing their combined effect.

### Improving hospitalisation

We first model an intervention that begins 30 days into the outbreak, and reduces the proportion of individuals who are infectious in the community by 30%, thus improving the proportion that are hospitalised.

```{r}
# create an intervention on the transmission rate
improve_hospitalisation <- intervention(
  type = "rate",

>   time_begin = 15, time_end = 100, reduction = 0.3

Reviewer: Although you use `time_begin = 15` throughout so it might make sense to rather change the value in the text to 15 days.

>   time_begin = 15, time_end = 100, reduction = 0.3

Author: Thanks yes, the text needs to be changed here so won't add this suggestion to the batch.

)
```

We can pass the interventions to the model function's `intervention` argument as a named list, with the names indicating the infection parameters to target.

```{r}
# set a seed for comparison with the baseline model
set.seed(0)
# note that the intervention is passed within a list,
# where it is named for the rate it is targeting
data_improve_hosp <- epidemic_ebola_r(
  population = guinea_population,
  infection = ebola,
  intervention = list(
    prop_community = improve_hospitalisation
  ),
  time_end = 100
)

# assign scenario name
data_improve_hosp$scenario <- "improve_hosp"

# bind the data together
data_scenarios <- rbindlist(list(data_baseline, data_improve_hosp))
```

```{r class.source = 'fold-hide', fig.cap="Effect of implementing an intervention that reduces the proportion of infectious cases in the community by transferring them to a hospitalisation setting."}
ggplot(data_scenarios[compartment == "removed", ]) +
  geom_vline(
    xintercept = 15,
    linetype = "dotted"
  ) +
  geom_line(
    aes(time, value, colour = scenario)
  ) +
  scale_colour_brewer(
    palette = "Set1",
    name = "Scenario",

>     labels = c("Baseline", "Improve hospitalisation")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    labels = c("Baseline", "Improved hospitalisation")
```
